So we spoke earlier
about spaced toggles and
how we can use these two obscure
values to swap between two values.
However, there is-,
when we want to toggle between
numerical values there
is a much easier way.
Let's look at this example.
It's slightly similar to
what we've seen previously.
We have two blog posts.
One of them has a class of dark and
the other one doesn't.
And the one that has the class of dark
has some different CSS applied to it.
So that it could look more appropriate for
dark mode.
Like here and here.
However, this requires applying a class,
this requires changing the HTML.
We want to be able to just change
a custom property to be able to
toggle between dark mode or
light mode for that component.
And that way we can decide in our
CSS when to enable dark mode for
each individual component.
We could set it with a media query
we could set it with a class we
could set it but however we want.
So how could we do that?
Let's look at the values we have here, so
this is white which we could
write ours HSL 0, 0, 100%.
And here we have black
which we can set as 0, 0,
0% because black has zero lightness.
And for now I'm gonna go here and
set is dark to 0 here and
is dark to 1 here.
So we can see what we're doing.
So how could we use
the is dark variable so
that we combine these two rules into one.
If we have a calc function here
to perform from a calculation.
We want to get 100% when
is dark is zero and
we want to get zero when is dark is one.
So how are we gonna do that?
So the general formula is,
we have our variable and
we multiply it by the value
we want when it's 1.
The value we want when it's one is 100%.
And then we add 1 minus that variable.
Multiplied by the value
we want when it's 0.
So now when is dark is 0, what do we get?
We get 0% here,
because this entire term disappears.
And this is 1 minus 0 multiplied by 0,
so it needs to be the other way around.
Actually, I think, We
need to 0 here and a 100% here, yes.
And now it's fine.
However, this is a little bit difficult
to remember as you've just seen.
So what we can do is defined and
is not dark.
Property, Which is always the opposite
when is dark is zero it gives us one and
when is dark is one it gives us zero.
This is essentially Boolean logic and
coded into CSS.
So here instead of having to
remember when to use one minus and
when to use just the property itself.
We just go here and
use is dark and is not dark.
So basically we use is dark multiplied
by the value we want if is dark is 1 and
then is not dark multiplied by
the value we want if it's dark is 0 and
we use 0 and 1 to toggle between them.
And similarly,
we can do the same thing here.
So here we want the content to be black
in regular blog posts the color to be
black in a regular blog post and the color
to be white in a dark mode blog post.
So we could basically do the same
thing here, and just flip these two.
Now, we can remove that.
And similarly, We can go here,
so we want 0.8 in regular mode and
0.2 in dark mode.
So, Let's go here,
we want 0.2 in dark mode,
0.8 in regular mode.
And we can remove this as well.
And now, what does this give us?
Right now, we have exactly the same result
pretty much with more complicated code.
But what we have achieved is,
we can toggle this
is dark property however
we want in our CSS.
We could go here and
say prefers color scheme dark and
make all of them dark on dark mode.
Or we could go here and say if we have
a class in the HTML that is dark,
then we make everything dark.
And we could also have the dark
class that we already had.
It gives us a lot more flexibility.
So to sum up, you can use 0/1 toggles for
any numeric value.
And the basic formula looks like this.
If you're interested in this,
there is a lot more.
You can go a lot deeper with this.
There is a tire on a tutor has
come up with entire formulas for
like all logic operations.
You can find a lot of
pointers in the notes here.
There's a lot of literature on this stuff.